Hi, I'm Mike Lais. And on behalf of Expert
Village, I bring you soloing tips and techniques.
So now we're looking at it being about time
to showcase and showoff in front of all your
friends, and get all the girls' phone numbers,
or guys' phone numbers, that you want to do.
Well, the important thing to remember is to
not throw out all your tricks at once. You
need something to work towards, and you can't
set the bar too high right away. I've fallen
into that trap many-a times, where I'll throw
it all out there. I'll just play really fast,
really loud, really hard, and then I got nothing
after it because I sort of gave it all away.
You want to try to think of this as like building
a house, where you start with your foundation,
you start with your base, and like, the brick
line underneath. And then you want to sort
of build on top of that. And then when you're
all done, the whole thing looks like it is
a finished product. So, just remember, you
also want to make sure that you keep yourself
in rhythm when you play. It's easy to do that
when you have a band behind you, but when
you're by yourself, try and keep a pulse going
with what you're doing. So, for an example
here, we'll start off with just something
really simple. You know, we'll start it off
with a little bit of rock. Get your whole
friends just kind of grooving along. Now we
can start throwing in our tricks, you know?
Don't be afraid to go back. Now we're going
to try and build it up to where we can get
ourselves going. Like I said, never be afraid
to go back, because now, when you start playing
quiet like this, it's going to make when you
start screaming on your guitar sound a lot
better and a lot like you tried to be there.
You know what I mean? So, you really want
to try and keep your quiets down, and be really
dynamic with your stuff. So, now when I stall
up and hit the high notes, you know, I can
come right back down. It's a little bit more
effective. Something like that.